
Click chemistry is the 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition of an azide and alkyne to form
1,2,3-triazole, which has been applied for a wide range of applications due to its simple
workup and purification steps, rapidly creating new products (Fig. 5.9) [96,97]. Since the introduction
of click chemistry into macromolecules and surface chemistry, it is expected to provide a useful strategy for
uniform, high-density surface immobilization of BREs in a covalent selective fashion. Click chemistry holds excellent
stability because triazole formation is irreversible and quantitative. In situ preparation of azide-terminated monolayers
 has been performed for creating an ideal surface for BRE attachment, meeting the ordered structure of SAM with the
 specificity of click chemistry. Therefore a various series of (bio)molecules, including PEG, lactose, DNA, biotin, and
  recombinant proteins, have been stably
 immobilized without formation of side products.
 Click chemistry, 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition of azide with alkynes, is a recent strategy
 that has been employed to functionalize nanostructures. By means of click chemistry, Brust’s group synthesized
 12 nm-sized gold nanoparticles which are capped with azide-functionalized thiolate ligands and lipase groups,
  which correspond to 0.3% of azido groups [244]. Fleming et al. [245] synthesized alkylthiolate-capped gold
   nanoparticles and then substituted the alkylthiolate ligands with bromoundecane thiols. This was followed by
    the substitution of bromide by azide group, which, by click reactions with terminal alkynes, resulted in the
     functionalization of gold nanoparticles through the formation of 1,2,3-triazole ring. The scheme of the click
     functionalization of gold nanoparticle is shown in Figure 24. However, the above-mentioned reactions showed lower
     conversion yields, which was attributed to the lack of solubility of the copper catalyst in the nonpolar reaction
     medium [245]. To circumvent this problem, Boisselier et al. [246] used a homogeneous water–THF reaction medium to
     functionalize gold nanoparticles using click chemistry. Voggu et al. [247] have used click chemistry to assemble
      nanorods of gold and CdSe and to decorate SWCNTs with gold nanoparticles. When the click reaction was carried
       out between gold nanorods capped with azidoalkane- and alkyne-thiols, chains and complex assemblies of nanorods
       were obtained. To decorate SWNTs with gold nanocrystals, SWNTs were first treated with
 4-azidobutylamine followed by reaction with gold nanoparticles capped with hexanethiol.